The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Hound of the Baskervilles
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Hound of the Baskervilles

Author: Arthur Conan Doyle

Release date: October 1, 2001 [eBook #2852]
                Most recently updated: June 27, 2021

Language: English

Credits: Shreevatsa R, and David Widger


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES ***

cover 



THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES

Another Adventure of Sherlock Holmes


by A. Conan Doyle




My dear Robinson,


    It was to your account of a West-Country legend that this tale owes its
inception. For this and for your help in the details all thanks.



Yours most truly,        

A. Conan Doyle.    



Hindhead,

    Haslemere.



Contents


 Chapter 1  Mr. Sherlock Holmes
 Chapter 2  The Curse of the Baskervilles
 Chapter 3  The Problem
 Chapter 4  Sir Henry Baskerville
 Chapter 5  Three Broken Threads
 Chapter 6  Baskerville Hall
 Chapter 7  The Stapletons of Merripit House
 Chapter 8  First Report of Dr. Watson
 Chapter 9  The Light upon the Moor [Second Report of Dr. Watson]
 Chapter 10 Extract from the Diary of Dr. Watson
 Chapter 11 The Man on the Tor
 Chapter 12 Death on the Moor
 Chapter 13 Fixing the Nets
 Chapter 14 The Hound of the Baskervilles
 Chapter 15 A Retrospection




Chapter 1.
Mr. Sherlock Holmes


      Mr. Sherlock Holmes, who was usually very late in the mornings,
      save upon those not infrequent occasions when he was up all
      night, was seated at the breakfast table. I stood upon the
      hearth-rug and picked up the stick which our visitor had left
      behind him the night before. It was a fine, thick piece of wood,
      bulbous-headed, of the sort which is known as a “Penang lawyer.”
      Just under the head was a broad silver band nearly an inch
      across. “To James Mortimer, M.R.C.S., from his friends of the
      C.C.H.,” was engraved upon it, with the date “1884.” It was just
      such a stick as the old-fashioned family practitioner used to
      carry—dignified, solid, and reassuring.

      “Well, Watson, what do you make of it?”

      Holmes was sitting with his back to me, and I had given him no
      sign of my occupation.

      “How did you know what I was doing? I believe you have eyes in
      the back of your head.”

      “I have, at least, a well-polished, silver-plated coffee-pot in
      front of me,” said he. “But, tell me, Watson, what do you make of
      our visitor’s stick? Since we have been so unfortunate as to miss
      him and have no notion of his errand, this accidental souvenir
      becomes of importance. Let me hear you reconstruct the man by an
      examination of it.”

      “I think,” said I, following as far as I could the methods of my
      companion, “that Dr. Mortimer is a successful, elderly medical
      man, well-esteemed since those who know him give him this mark of
      their appreciation.”

      “Good!” said Holmes. “Excellent!”

      “I think also that the probability is in favour of his being a
      country practitioner who does a great deal of his visiting on
      foot.”

      “Why so?”

      “Because this stick, though originally a very handsome one has
      been so knocked about that I can hardly imagine a town
      practitioner carrying it. The thick-iron ferrule is worn down, so
      it is evident that he has done a great amount of walking with
      it.”

      “Perfectly sound!” said Holmes.

      “And then again, there is the ‘friends of the C.C.H.’ I should
      guess that to be the Something Hunt, the local hunt to whose
      members he has possibly given some surgical assistance, and which
      has made him a small presentation in return.”

      “Really, Watson, you excel yourself,” said Holmes, pushing back
      his chair and lighting a cigarette. “I am bound to say that in
      all the accounts which you have been so good as to give of my own
      small achievements you have habitually underrated your own
      abilities. It may be that you are not yourself luminous, but you
      are a conductor of light. Some people without possessing genius
      have a remarkable power of stimulating it. I confess, my dear
      fellow, that I am very much in your debt.”

      He had never said as much before, and I must admit that his words
      gave me keen pleasure, for I had often been piqued by his
      indifference to my admiration and to the attempts which I had
      made to give publicity to his methods. I was proud, too, to think
      that I had so far mastered his system as to apply it in a way
      which earned his approval. He now took the stick from my hands
      and examined it for a few minutes with his naked eyes. Then with
      an expression of interest he laid down his cigarette, and
      carrying the cane to the window, he looked over it again with a
      convex lens.

      “Interesting, though elementary,” said he as he returned to his
      favourite corner of the settee. “There are certainly one or two
      indications upon the stick. It gives us the basis for several
      deductions.”

      “Has anything escaped me?” I asked with some self-importance. “I
      trust that there is nothing of consequence which I have
      overlooked?”

      “I am afraid, my dear Watson, that most of your conclusions were
      erroneous. When I said that you stimulated me I meant, to be
      frank, that in noting your fallacies I was occasionally guided
      towards the truth. Not that you are entirely wrong in this
      instance. The man is certainly a country practitioner. And he
      walks a good deal.”

      “Then I was right.”

      “To that extent.”

      “But that was all.”

      “No, no, my dear Watson, not all—by no means all. I would
      suggest, for example, that a presentation to a doctor is more
      likely to come from a hospital than from a hunt, and that when
      the initials ‘C.C.’ are placed before that hospital the words
      ‘Charing Cross’ very naturally suggest themselves.”

      “You may be right.”

      “The probability lies in that direction. And if we take this as a
      working hypothesis we have a fresh basis from which to start our
      construction of this unknown visitor.”

      “Well, then, supposing that ‘C.C.H.’ does stand for ‘Charing
      Cross Hospital,’ what further inferences may we draw?”

      “Do none suggest themselves? You know my methods. Apply them!”

      “I can only think of the obvious conclusion that the man has
      practised in town before going to the country.”

      “I think that we might venture a little farther than this. Look
      at it in this light. On what occasion would it be most probable
      that such a presentation would be made? When would his friends
      unite to give him a pledge of their good will? Obviously at the
      moment when Dr. Mortimer withdrew from the service of the
      hospital in order to start a practice for himself. We know there
      has been a presentation. We believe there has been a change from
      a town hospital to a country practice. Is it, then, stretching
      our inference too far to say that the presentation was on the
      occasion of the change?”

      “It certainly seems probable.”

      “Now, you will observe that he could not have been on the _staff_
      of the hospital, since only a man well-established in a London
      practice could hold such a position, and such a one would not
      drift into the country. What was he, then? If he was in the
      hospital and yet not on the staff he could only have been a
      house-surgeon or a house-physician—little more than a senior
      student. And he left five years ago—the date is on the stick. So
      your grave, middle-aged family practitioner vanishes into thin
      air, my dear Watson, and there emerges a young fellow under
      thirty, amiable, unambitious, absent-minded, and the possessor of
      a favourite dog, which I should describe roughly as being larger
      than a terrier and smaller than a mastiff.”

      I laughed incredulously as Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his
      settee and blew little wavering rings of smoke up to the ceiling.

      “As to the latter part, I have no means of checking you,” said I,
      “but at least it is not difficult to find out a few particulars
      about the man’s age and professional career.” From my small
      medical shelf I took down the Medical Directory and turned up the
      name. There were several Mortimers, but only one who could be our
      visitor. I read his record aloud.

        “Mortimer, James, M.R.C.S., 1882, Grimpen, Dartmoor, Devon.
        House-surgeon, from 1882 to 1884, at Charing Cross Hospital.
        Winner of the Jackson prize for Comparative Pathology, with
        essay entitled ‘Is Disease a Reversion?’  Corresponding member
        of the Swedish Pathological Society.  Author of ‘Some Freaks of
        Atavism’ (_Lancet_ 1882).  ‘Do We Progress?’ (_Journal of
        Psychology_, March, 1883). Medical Officer for the parishes of
        Grimpen, Thorsley, and High Barrow.”

      “No mention of that local hunt, Watson,” said Holmes with a
      mischievous smile, “but a country doctor, as you very astutely
      observed. I think that I am fairly justified in my inferences. As
      to the adjectives, I said, if I remember right, amiable,
      unambitious, and absent-minded. It is my experience that it is
      only an amiable man in this world who receives testimonials, only
      an unambitious one who abandons a London career for the country,
      and only an absent-minded one who leaves his stick and not his
      visiting-card after waiting an hour in your room.”

      “And the dog?”

      “Has been in the habit of carrying this stick behind his master.
      Being a heavy stick the dog has held it tightly by the middle,
      and the marks of his teeth are very plainly visible. The dog’s
      jaw, as shown in the space between these marks, is too broad in
      my opinion for a terrier and not broad enough for a mastiff. It
      may have been—yes, by Jove, it _is_ a curly-haired spaniel.”

      He had risen and paced the room as he spoke. Now he halted in the
      recess of the window. There was such a ring of conviction in his
      voice that I glanced up in surprise.

      “My dear fellow, how can you possibly be so sure of that?”

      “For the very simple reason that I see the dog himself on our
      very door-step, and there is the ring of its owner. Don’t move, I
      beg you, Watson. He is a professional brother of yours, and your
      presence may be of assistance to me. Now is the dramatic moment
      of fate, Watson, when you hear a step upon the stair which is
      walking into your life, and you know not whether for good or ill.
      What does Dr. James Mortimer, the man of science, ask of Sherlock
      Holmes, the specialist in crime? Come in!”

      The appearance of our visitor was a surprise to me, since I had
      expected a typical country practitioner. He was a very tall, thin
      man, with a long nose like a beak, which jutted out between two
      keen, grey eyes, set closely together and sparkling brightly from
      behind a pair of gold-rimmed glasses. He was clad in a
      professional but rather slovenly fashion, for his frock-coat was
      dingy and his trousers frayed. Though young, his long back was
      already bowed, and he walked with a forward thrust of his head
      and a general air of peering benevolence. As he entered his eyes
      fell upon the stick in Holmes’s hand, and he ran towards it with
      an exclamation of joy. “I am so very glad,” said he. “I was not
      sure whether I had left it here or in the Shipping Office. I
      would not lose that stick for the world.”

      “A presentation, I see,” said Holmes.

      “Yes, sir.”

      “From Charing Cross Hospital?”

      “From one or two friends there on the occasion of my marriage.”

      “Dear, dear, that’s bad!” said Holmes, shaking his head.

      Dr. Mortimer blinked through his glasses in mild astonishment.
      “Why was it bad?”

      “Only that you have disarranged our little deductions. Your
      marriage, you say?”

      “Yes, sir. I married, and so left the hospital, and with it all
      hopes of a consulting practice. It was necessary to make a home
      of my own.”

      “Come, come, we are not so far wrong, after all,” said Holmes.
      “And now, Dr. James Mortimer—”

      “Mister, sir, Mister—a humble M.R.C.S.”

      “And a man of precise mind, evidently.”

      “A dabbler in science, Mr. Holmes, a picker up of shells on the
      shores of the great unknown ocean. I presume that it is Mr.
      Sherlock Holmes whom I am addressing and not—”

      “No, this is my friend Dr. Watson.”

      “Glad to meet you, sir. I have heard your name mentioned in
      connection with that of your friend. You interest me very much,
      Mr. Holmes. I had hardly expected so dolichocephalic a skull or
      such well-marked supra-orbital development. Would you have any
      objection to my running my finger along your parietal fissure? A
      cast of your skull, sir, until the original is available, would
      be an ornament to any anthropological museum. It is not my
      intention to be fulsome, but I confess that I covet your skull.”

      Sherlock Holmes waved our strange visitor into a chair. “You are
      an enthusiast in your line of thought, I perceive, sir, as I am
      in mine,” said he. “I observe from your forefinger that you make
      your own cigarettes. Have no hesitation in lighting one.”

      The man drew out paper and tobacco and twirled the one up in the
      other with surprising dexterity. He had long, quivering fingers
      as agile and restless as the antennæ of an insect.

      Holmes was silent, but his little darting glances showed me the
      interest which he took in our curious companion. “I presume,
      sir,” said he at last, “that it was not merely for the purpose of
      examining my skull that you have done me the honour to call here
      last night and again today?”

      “No, sir, no; though I am happy to have had the opportunity of
      doing that as well. I came to you, Mr. Holmes, because I
      recognized that I am myself an unpractical man and because I am
      suddenly confronted with a most serious and extraordinary
      problem. Recognizing, as I do, that you are the second highest
      expert in Europe—”

      “Indeed, sir! May I inquire who has the honour to be the first?”
      asked Holmes with some asperity.

      “To the man of precisely scientific mind the work of Monsieur
      Bertillon must always appeal strongly.”

      “Then had you not better consult him?”

      “I said, sir, to the precisely scientific mind. But as a
      practical man of affairs it is acknowledged that you stand alone.
      I trust, sir, that I have not inadvertently—”

      “Just a little,” said Holmes. “I think, Dr. Mortimer, you would
      do wisely if without more ado you would kindly tell me plainly
      what the exact nature of the problem is in which you demand my
      assistance.”




Chapter 2.
The Curse of the Baskervilles


      “I have in my pocket a manuscript,” said Dr. James Mortimer.

      “I observed it as you entered the room,” said Holmes.

      “It is an old manuscript.”

      “Early eighteenth century, unless it is a forgery.”

      “How can you say that, sir?”

      “You have presented an inch or two of it to my examination all
      the time that you have been talking. It would be a poor expert
      who could not give the date of a document within a decade or so.
      You may possibly have read my little monograph upon the subject.
      I put that at 1730.”

      “The exact date is 1742.” Dr. Mortimer drew it from his
      breast-pocket. “This family paper was committed to my care by Sir
      Charles Baskerville, whose sudden and tragic death some three
      months ago created so much excitement in Devonshire. I may say
      that I was his personal friend as well as his medical attendant.
      He was a strong-minded man, sir, shrewd, practical, and as
      unimaginative as I am myself. Yet he took this document very
      seriously, and his mind was prepared for just such an end as did
      eventually overtake him.”

      Holmes stretched out his hand for the manuscript and flattened it
      upon his knee. “You will observe, Watson, the alternative use of
      the long _s_ and the short. It is one of several indications
      which enabled me to fix the date.”

      I looked over his shoulder at the yellow paper and the faded
      script. At the head was written: “Baskerville Hall,” and below in
      large, scrawling figures: “1742.”

      “It appears to be a statement of some sort.”

      “Yes, it is a statement of a certain legend which runs in the
      Baskerville family.”

      “But I understand that it is something more modern and practical
      upon which you wish to consult me?”

      “Most modern. A most practical, pressing matter, which must be
      decided within twenty-four hours. But the manuscript is short and
      is intimately connected with the affair. With your permission I
      will read it to you.”

      Holmes leaned back in his chair, placed his finger-tips together,
      and closed his eyes, with an air of resignation. Dr. Mortimer
      turned the manuscript to the light and read in a high, cracking
      voice the following curious, old-world narrative:

      “Driving back in the evening from Coombe Tracey he was in time to
      get his hound, to treat it with his infernal paint, and to bring
      the beast round to the gate at which he had reason to expect that
      he would find the old gentleman waiting. The dog, incited by its
      master, sprang over the wicket-gate and pursued the unfortunate
      baronet, who fled screaming down the yew alley. In that gloomy
      tunnel it must indeed have been a dreadful sight to see that huge
      black creature, with its flaming jaws and blazing eyes, bounding
      after its victim. He fell dead at the end of the alley from heart
      disease and terror. The hound had kept upon the grassy border
      while the baronet had run down the path, so that no track but the
      man’s was visible. On seeing him lying still the creature had
      probably approached to sniff at him, but finding him dead had
      turned away again. It was then that it left the print which was
      actually observed by Dr. Mortimer. The hound was called off and
      hurried away to its lair in the Grimpen Mire, and a mystery was
      left which puzzled the authorities, alarmed the countryside, and
      finally brought the case within the scope of our observation.

      “So much for the death of Sir Charles Baskerville. You perceive
      the devilish cunning of it, for really it would be almost
      impossible to make a case against the real murderer. His only
      accomplice was one who could never give him away, and the
      grotesque, inconceivable nature of the device only served to make
      it more effective. Both of the women concerned in the case, Mrs.
      Stapleton and Mrs. Laura Lyons, were left with a strong suspicion
      against Stapleton. Mrs. Stapleton knew that he had designs upon
      the old man, and also of the existence of the hound. Mrs. Lyons
      knew neither of these things, but had been impressed by the death
      occurring at the time of an uncancelled appointment which was
      only known to him. However, both of them were under his
      influence, and he had nothing to fear from them. The first half
      of his task was successfully accomplished but the more difficult
      still remained.

      “It is possible that Stapleton did not know of the existence of
      an heir in Canada. In any case he would very soon learn it from
      his friend Dr. Mortimer, and he was told by the latter all
      details about the arrival of Henry Baskerville. Stapleton’s first
      idea was that this young stranger from Canada might possibly be
      done to death in London without coming down to Devonshire at all.
      He distrusted his wife ever since she had refused to help him in
      laying a trap for the old man, and he dared not leave her long
      out of his sight for fear he should lose his influence over her.
      It was for this reason that he took her to London with him. They
      lodged, I find, at the Mexborough Private Hotel, in Craven
      Street, which was actually one of those called upon by my agent
      in search of evidence. Here he kept his wife imprisoned in her
      room while he, disguised in a beard, followed Dr. Mortimer to
      Baker Street and afterwards to the station and to the
      Northumberland Hotel. His wife had some inkling of his plans; but
      she had such a fear of her husband—a fear founded upon brutal
      ill-treatment—that she dare not write to warn the man whom she
      knew to be in danger. If the letter should fall into Stapleton’s
      hands her own life would not be safe. Eventually, as we know, she
      adopted the expedient of cutting out the words which would form
      the message, and addressing the letter in a disguised hand. It
      reached the baronet, and gave him the first warning of his
      danger.

      “It was very essential for Stapleton to get some article of Sir
      Henry’s attire so that, in case he was driven to use the dog, he
      might always have the means of setting him upon his track. With
      characteristic promptness and audacity he set about this at once,
      and we cannot doubt that the boots or chamber-maid of the hotel
      was well bribed to help him in his design. By chance, however,
      the first boot which was procured for him was a new one and,
      therefore, useless for his purpose. He then had it returned and
      obtained another—a most instructive incident, since it proved
      conclusively to my mind that we were dealing with a real hound,
      as no other supposition could explain this anxiety to obtain an
      old boot and this indifference to a new one. The more _outré_ and
      grotesque an incident is the more carefully it deserves to be
      examined, and the very point which appears to complicate a case
      is, when duly considered and scientifically handled, the one
      which is most likely to elucidate it.

      “Then we had the visit from our friends next morning, shadowed
      always by Stapleton in the cab. From his knowledge of our rooms
      and of my appearance, as well as from his general conduct, I am
      inclined to think that Stapleton’s career of crime has been by no
      means limited to this single Baskerville affair. It is suggestive
      that during the last three years there have been four
      considerable burglaries in the west country, for none of which
      was any criminal ever arrested. The last of these, at Folkestone
      Court, in May, was remarkable for the cold-blooded pistolling of
      the page, who surprised the masked and solitary burglar. I cannot
      doubt that Stapleton recruited his waning resources in this
      fashion, and that for years he has been a desperate and dangerous
      man.

      “We had an example of his readiness of resource that morning when
      he got away from us so successfully, and also of his audacity in
      sending back my own name to me through the cabman. From that
      moment he understood that I had taken over the case in London,
      and that therefore there was no chance for him there. He returned
      to Dartmoor and awaited the arrival of the baronet.”

      “One moment!” said I. “You have, no doubt, described the sequence
      of events correctly, but there is one point which you have left
      unexplained. What became of the hound when its master was in
      London?”

      “I have given some attention to this matter and it is undoubtedly
      of importance. There can be no question that Stapleton had a
      confidant, though it is unlikely that he ever placed himself in
      his power by sharing all his plans with him. There was an old
      manservant at Merripit House, whose name was Anthony. His
      connection with the Stapletons can be traced for several years,
      as far back as the school-mastering days, so that he must have
      been aware that his master and mistress were really husband and
      wife. This man has disappeared and has escaped from the country.
      It is suggestive that Anthony is not a common name in England,
      while Antonio is so in all Spanish or Spanish-American countries.
      The man, like Mrs. Stapleton herself, spoke good English, but
      with a curious lisping accent. I have myself seen this old man
      cross the Grimpen Mire by the path which Stapleton had marked
      out. It is very probable, therefore, that in the absence of his
      master it was he who cared for the hound, though he may never
      have known the purpose for which the beast was used.

      “The Stapletons then went down to Devonshire, whither they were
      soon followed by Sir Henry and you. One word now as to how I
      stood myself at that time. It may possibly recur to your memory
      that when I examined the paper upon which the printed words were
      fastened I made a close inspection for the water-mark. In doing
      so I held it within a few inches of my eyes, and was conscious of
      a faint smell of the scent known as white jessamine. There are
      seventy-five perfumes, which it is very necessary that a criminal
      expert should be able to distinguish from each other, and cases
      have more than once within my own experience depended upon their
      prompt recognition. The scent suggested the presence of a lady,
      and already my thoughts began to turn towards the Stapletons.
      Thus I had made certain of the hound, and had guessed at the
      criminal before ever we went to the west country.

      “It was my game to watch Stapleton. It was evident, however, that
      I could not do this if I were with you, since he would be keenly
      on his guard. I deceived everybody, therefore, yourself included,
      and I came down secretly when I was supposed to be in London. My
      hardships were not so great as you imagined, though such trifling
      details must never interfere with the investigation of a case. I
      stayed for the most part at Coombe Tracey, and only used the hut
      upon the moor when it was necessary to be near the scene of
      action. Cartwright had come down with me, and in his disguise as
      a country boy he was of great assistance to me. I was dependent
      upon him for food and clean linen. When I was watching Stapleton,
      Cartwright was frequently watching you, so that I was able to
      keep my hand upon all the strings.

      “I have already told you that your reports reached me rapidly,
      being forwarded instantly from Baker Street to Coombe Tracey.
      They were of great service to me, and especially that one
      incidentally truthful piece of biography of Stapleton’s. I was
      able to establish the identity of the man and the woman and knew
      at last exactly how I stood. The case had been considerably
      complicated through the incident of the escaped convict and the
      relations between him and the Barrymores. This also you cleared
      up in a very effective way, though I had already come to the same
      conclusions from my own observations.

      “By the time that you discovered me upon the moor I had a
      complete knowledge of the whole business, but I had not a case
      which could go to a jury. Even Stapleton’s attempt upon Sir Henry
      that night which ended in the death of the unfortunate convict
      did not help us much in proving murder against our man. There
      seemed to be no alternative but to catch him red-handed, and to
      do so we had to use Sir Henry, alone and apparently unprotected,
      as a bait. We did so, and at the cost of a severe shock to our
      client we succeeded in completing our case and driving Stapleton
      to his destruction. That Sir Henry should have been exposed to
      this is, I must confess, a reproach to my management of the case,
      but we had no means of foreseeing the terrible and paralyzing
      spectacle which the beast presented, nor could we predict the fog
      which enabled him to burst upon us at such short notice. We
      succeeded in our object at a cost which both the specialist and
      Dr. Mortimer assure me will be a temporary one. A long journey
      may enable our friend to recover not only from his shattered
      nerves but also from his wounded feelings. His love for the lady
      was deep and sincere, and to him the saddest part of all this
      black business was that he should have been deceived by her.

      “It only remains to indicate the part which she had played
      throughout. There can be no doubt that Stapleton exercised an
      influence over her which may have been love or may have been
      fear, or very possibly both, since they are by no means
      incompatible emotions. It was, at least, absolutely effective. At
      his command she consented to pass as his sister, though he found
      the limits of his power over her when he endeavoured to make her
      the direct accessory to murder. She was ready to warn Sir Henry
      so far as she could without implicating her husband, and again
      and again she tried to do so. Stapleton himself seems to have
      been capable of jealousy, and when he saw the baronet paying
      court to the lady, even though it was part of his own plan, still
      he could not help interrupting with a passionate outburst which
      revealed the fiery soul which his self-contained manner so
      cleverly concealed. By encouraging the intimacy he made it
      certain that Sir Henry would frequently come to Merripit House
      and that he would sooner or later get the opportunity which he
      desired. On the day of the crisis, however, his wife turned
      suddenly against him. She had learned something of the death of
      the convict, and she knew that the hound was being kept in the
      outhouse on the evening that Sir Henry was coming to dinner. She
      taxed her husband with his intended crime, and a furious scene
      followed in which he showed her for the first time that she had a
      rival in his love. Her fidelity turned in an instant to bitter
      hatred, and he saw that she would betray him. He tied her up,
      therefore, that she might have no chance of warning Sir Henry,
      and he hoped, no doubt, that when the whole countryside put down
      the baronet’s death to the curse of his family, as they certainly
      would do, he could win his wife back to accept an accomplished
      fact and to keep silent upon what she knew. In this I fancy that
      in any case he made a miscalculation, and that, if we had not
      been there, his doom would none the less have been sealed. A
      woman of Spanish blood does not condone such an injury so
      lightly. And now, my dear Watson, without referring to my notes,
      I cannot give you a more detailed account of this curious case. I
      do not know that anything essential has been left unexplained.”

      “He could not hope to frighten Sir Henry to death as he had done
      the old uncle with his bogie hound.”

      “The beast was savage and half-starved. If its appearance did not
      frighten its victim to death, at least it would paralyze the
      resistance which might be offered.”

      “No doubt. There only remains one difficulty. If Stapleton came
      into the succession, how could he explain the fact that he, the
      heir, had been living unannounced under another name so close to
      the property? How could he claim it without causing suspicion and
      inquiry?”

  
